---
title: Master Software License, Support and Services Agreement
date: '2019-02-01'
---

**Master Software License, Support and Services Agreement**

This Master Software License, Support and Services Agreement (this
“**Agreement**”) is made and entered by and between PlanetScale, Inc
(“**PlanetScale**”) and Customer (each a “Party” and collectively, “the
Parties”). Capitalized terms shall have the meaning defined herein and
in the Exhibits hereto.

In consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

1.  DEFINITIONS.

    “**Authorized Period**” means the time period specified in the
    applicable Order Form for Customer’s licensed use of the Licensed
    Software

    “**Authorized Users**” means the number of Customer’s employees and
    contractors authorized to use the Licensed Software hereunder, as
    specified in the applicable Order Form.

    “**Confidential Information**” means any and all non-public,
    confidential and proprietary information, furnished by one party to
    this Agreement (the “**Disclosing Party**”) or any of its
    Representatives to the other party to this Agreement (the
    “**Receiving Party**”) or any of its Representatives, whether
    orally, in writing, or in other tangible form. For the avoidance of
    doubt, PlanetScale’s Confidential Information shall expressly
    include the terms of this Agreement, the Licensed Software and the
    Documentation.

    “**Derivative Work**” means a work of authorship or other
    development that is based on, derived from or extends, replaces,
    emulates, substitutes for, or exposes to third parties the
    functionalities of the Licensed Software or the Documentation, and
    includes, without limitation, any “derivative work” as defined in
    the United States Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. Section 101.

    “**Documentation**” means the product documentation delivered by
    PlanetScale to Customer.

    “**Intellectual Property Right**” means all patent, copyright, trade
    secret, trademark or other intellectual property rights.

    “**Licensed Software**” means the PlanetScale proprietary software
    product(s) indicated on an Order Form that will be licensed to
    Customer as Licensed Software under this Agreement, excluding any
    open source license software.

    “**M&S**” means the maintenance and support services provided by
    PlanetScale for the Licensed Software licensed under this Agreement.

    “**Order Form**” means an ordering document governed by this
    Agreement that has been executed by PlanetScale and Customer and
    which provides for access to the Licensed Software, the delivery of
    Professional Services and/or the provision of M&S, among other
    things.

    “**Professional Services**” means fee-based setup, implementation,
    configuration, consulting, training and other services (other than
    M&S) that PlanetScale provides pursuant to an Order Form and/or SOW.

    “**Representatives**” means, as to any person, such person’s
    affiliates and its or their directors, officers, employees, agents,
    and advisors (including, without limitation, financial advisors,
    counsel and accountants) bound by a written agreement or other legal
    obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the Confidential
    Information disclosed to them as required by the terms of
    Section 11.

    “**Services**” means Professional Services and/or M&S purchased by
    Customer pursuant to an Order Form.

    “**Statement of Work**” or “**SOW**” means a document that
    accompanies an Order Form which details the Professional Services
    purchased by Customer.

2.  LICENSES

    **License**. During the Authorized Period and subject to the terms
    and conditions of this Agreement and the applicable Order Form,
    including receipt of all applicable fees by PlanetScale, PlanetScale
    hereby grants to Customer, and Customer hereby accepts from
    PlanetScale, a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable and
    non-sublicensable license to use the Licensed Software and
    Documentation, in a manner consistent with the specifications and
    limitations set forth in this Agreement and the Documentation, by
    the Authorized Users during the Authorized Period.

    **Restrictions on Licenses**. In addition to the restrictions set
    forth above, Customer agrees that, except as otherwise expressly
    provided by this Agreement, it shall not: (a) except as permitted
    under Section 13.3, sublicense, assign, delegate, rent, lease, sell,
    timeshare or otherwise transfer the benefits of, use under, or
    rights to, the license granted in Section 2.1, and any attempt to
    make any such sublicense, assignment, delegation or other transfer
    by Customer shall be void and of no effect; (b) reverse engineer,
    decompile, disassemble or otherwise attempt to learn the source
    code, structure or algorithms underlying the Licensed Software,
    except to the extent required to be permitted under applicable
    law; (c) modify, translate or create Derivative Works of the
    Licensed Software without the prior written consent of
    PlanetScale; (d) remove any copyright, trademark, patent or other
    proprietary notice that appears on the Licensed Software,
    Documentation or copies thereof; or (e) combine or distribute any of
    the Licensed Software with any software that is licensed under terms
    that seek to require that any of the Licensed Software (or any
    associated Intellectual Property Rights) be provided in source code
    form (e.g., as “open source”), licensed to others to allow the
    creation or distribution of Derivative Works, or distributed without
    charge. For the avoidance of doubt, the restrictions in this Section
    2.2 are not intended to prohibit Customer from using third party
    managed services providers to manage the Licensed Software either at
    a Customer’s site or such third party’s site solely on behalf and
    for the benefit of Customer.

3.  SERVICES.

    **Scope**. PlanetScale will perform the Services set forth in an
    Order Form and/or SOW executed by the Parties, which shall include
    and/or specify a description of the Services to be provided to
    Customer and the applicable fees and payment terms. If either
    Customer or PlanetScale request a change in the scope of
    Professional Services, any agreed-upon changes, including changes in
    fees and expenses, will not be binding against either Party unless
    set forth in a writing executed by the Parties (each, a “Change
    Order”).

    **Customer Cooperation; License**. Customer acknowledges that
    PlanetScale’s ability to timely deliver the Services is dependent
    upon Customer’s ongoing cooperation and assistance (including, if
    requested by PlanetScale, Customer’s use of a particular version of
    the Licensed Software). Accordingly, Customer will supply to
    PlanetScale, on a timely basis, all information, data, materials,
    and assistance reasonably necessary for PlanetScale to perform the
    Services, including database query logs, database schema, a
    description of hardware in use, and any additional information,
    material, or assistance identified in an Order Form or Statement of
    Work. Accordingly, Customer hereby grants to PlanetScale a
    non-exclusive, world-wide, sublicensable, license for the Term to
    copy, distribute, modify and otherwise use such information, data,
    and materials, solely for the purpose of performing the Services.
    PlanetScale’s period of performance shall be equitably extended to
    account for any delays resulting from Customer’s failure to fully
    comply with the foregoing.

    **Staffing**. PlanetScale shall be responsible for staffing
    decisions with respect to employees or contractors utilized in the
    performance of any Services under this Agreement, and shall have the
    right at any time to delegate, subcontract, remove or replace any of
    its personnel or contractors assigned to perform any Services.
    PlanetScale will be responsible for the acts or omissions of its
    employee and contractor personnel and any delays caused by the
    reassignment or replacement thereof.

    **Expense Reimbursements**. Customer will reimburse PlanetScale for
    reasonable travel and other expenses incurred in connection with
    performing the Services, provided that Customer approves such
    expenses before they are incurred.

4.  OWNERSHIP. The Licensed Software and Documentation are licensed and
    not sold to Customer. Except for the license expressly rights
    granted to Customer under Section 2.1, PlanetScale and its licensors
    own and retain all right, title and interest in the Licensed
    Software and Documentation, any design changes, improvements,
    enhancements, Derivative Works, or modifications thereof or thereto,
    and any related and/or associated Intellectual Property Rights,
    whether developed by PlanetScale or by Customer or its employees or
    independent contractors. To the extent that PlanetScale modifies or
    creates any work related to the Vitess open source software project
    in the course of providing Services to Customer, such modification
    and/or works shall be owned exclusively by PlanetScale, and
    PlanetScale shall have the right to commit such modification and/or
    work to the Vitess open source project. Customer shall cooperate
    with PlanetScale in good faith to the extent necessary for
    PlanetScale to arrange or obtain the assignment to, and registration
    on behalf of, PlanetScale of all Intellectual Property Rights in any
    design changes, improvements, enhancements, Derivative Works, or
    modifications to the Licensed Software or Documentation.

    []{#\_gjdgxs .anchor} SOFTWARE MAINTENANCE & SUPPORT SERVICES.
    Subject to the timely payment of the Licensed Software and M&S Fees
    (which fees are described in the applicable Order Form), PlanetScale
    shall provide the M&S for such Licensed Software in accordance with
    Exhibit A.

    REPORTING; PAYMENTS.

    **Fees; Payment Terms**. Customer shall pay to PlanetScale the fees
    set forth in applicable Order Form (collectively, the “**Fees**”).
    Payment obligations are non-cancelable and Fees paid are
    non-refundable unless this Agreement or an applicable Order Form is
    terminated by Customer for cause pursuant to Section 8.1, in which
    case any prepaid, unearned Fees for the terminated portion of the
    Authorized Period will be refunded to Customer. All amounts payable
    to PlanetScale under this Agreement shall be paid in United States
    dollars and shall be due thirty (30) days from the date of invoice.
    Overdue Fees shall accrue late interest charges at the rate of 1.5%
    of the outstanding balance per month, or the maximum rate permitted
    by law, whichever is lower, from the date such payment was due until
    the date paid

    **Taxes**. Customer is solely responsible for the payment of all
    taxes, assessments, tariffs, duties, or other fees imposed,
    assessed, or collected by or under the authority of any governmental
    body (collectively, “Taxes”) arising from PlanetScale’s provision of
    the Services hereunder, except any taxes assessed upon PlanetScale’s
    net income. If PlanetScale is required to directly pay Taxes related
    to Customer’s use or receipt of any Services, Customer agrees to
    promptly reimburse PlanetScale for any amounts paid by PlanetScale.
    All amounts payable to PlanetScale under this Agreement shall be
    without set-off and without deduction of any Taxes.

    **Reporting.** Within two (2) business days following the end of
    each calendar month, Customer shall provide PlanetScale with all
    information reasonably requested by PlanetScale that is related to
    its usage and hosting of its databases under management by Vitess,
    including invoices issued by Customer’s hosting provider for
    hardware costs. In the event that Customer fails to timely fulfill
    its reporting obligations set forth in this Section 6.3, Customer’s
    time to pay invoices pursuant to Section 6.3 shall be reduced on a
    day-for-day basis to account for such delay.

    **Audit Rights**. PlanetScale may inspect the books, records and
    systems of Provider relating to the subject matter of this Agreement
    (including those reasonably necessary to verify the basis for
    PlanetScale’s fees), provided that any such audit is no more often
    than two times per year. Such audits shall be scheduled within 10
    days following delivery of notice during normal business hours and
    shall be conducted in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere
    with Customer’s business operations. If the audit reveals that
    Customer underpaid PlanetScale by more than 5% of the amounts due
    hereunder, the reasonable cost of the audit shall be paid by
    Customer, in addition to any amounts due.

    TERM. The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective
    Date and remain in effect until terminated in accordance with
    Section 8.1 (the “Term”). At the expiration of each Authorized
    Period, the applicable Order Form will automatically renew for an
    additional one (1) year with respect to the Licensed Software and
    the Services, unless either Party elects to not renew by notifying
    the other Party in writing at least 30 days before such renewal. All
    payments due during a renewal term shall be on the same schedule as
    set forth in the renewing Order Form. PlanetScale will provide
    Customer with no less than sixty (60) days prior written notice of
    any pricing changes applicable to a renewal term.

    TERMINATION.

    **Termination**. Either Party may terminate this Agreement and/or
    any Order Form by providing written notice to the other Party (i) if
    the other Party is in material breach of this Agreement and has not
    cured such breach within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving
    written notice of such breach or if the other Party is in material
    breach and such breach is not curable; (ii) if the other Party (x)
    has any action or proceedings under any bankruptcy or insolvency
    laws taken by or against it which have not been dismissed within
    sixty (60) days, (y) has effected a compulsory or voluntary
    liquidation or dissolution, or (z) has undergone the occurrence of
    any event analogous to any of the foregoing under the law of any
    jurisdiction; or (iii) if there are no Order Forms in effect for
    more than sixty (60) days, continuously.

    **Effect of Termination**. Upon any expiration or termination of
    this Agreement, the license granted in Section 2 shall terminate
    immediately, and Customer shall (i) immediately cease use of all
    Licensed Software and Documentation, (ii) destroy all Licensed
    Software and related Documentation and other materials and
    information provided by PlanetScale and any copies thereof made by
    Customer, and (iii) Customer shall certify its compliance with the
    same to PlanetScale in writing. Any termination or expiration shall
    not relieve Customer of its obligation to pay all Fees accruing
    prior to termination. If the Agreement is terminated due to
    Customer’s breach, Customer shall pay to PlanetScale all unpaid Fees
    set forth in the then-outstanding Order Forms.

    WARRANTY.

    **PlanetScale Warranty**. The Licensed Software, when used by
    Customer in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and in
    compliance with the applicable Documentation, will perform, in all
    material respects, the functions described in the Documentation
    without any Errors (as such term is defined in Exhibit A) for a
    period of ninety (90) days from the date the Licensed Software was
    first delivered to Customer (such period, the “**Warranty
    Period**”). PlanetScale further warrants it shall perform the
    services in a professional and workmanlike manner.

    **Exclusive Remedies**. Customer shall report to PlanetScale,
    pursuant to the notice provision of this Agreement, any breach of
    the warranties set forth in this Section 9 during the relevant
    Warranty Period. In the event of a breach of warranty by PlanetScale
    under this Agreement, Customer’s sole and exclusive remedy, and
    PlanetScale’s entire liability, shall be prompt correction of Errors
    or, if such correction is not possible, replacement of the Licensed
    Software.

    **Limitations of Warranties**. No warranty or indemnification shall
    apply where the defect or error in the Licensed Software is caused
    by: (a) any use of the Licensed Software which is not in conformity
    with the provisions of this Agreement or in substantial compliance
    with the Documentation; (b) any repair, modification or installation
    of the Licensed Software not made or expressly authorized by
    PlanetScale; or (c) the use or attempted use of software other than
    the most current version supported by PlanetScale and made available
    to Customer under the terms of this Agreement. Replacement or repair
    of Licensed Software shall not extend its warranty period beyond the
    original warranty expiration date.

    **Disclaimer of Warranty**. PlanetScale does not represent or
    warrant that the operation of the Licensed Software (or any portion
    thereof) will be uninterrupted or error free, or that the Licensed
    Software (or any portion thereof) will operate in combination with
    other hardware, software, systems or data not provided by
    PlanetScale, except as expressly specified in the applicable
    Documentation. PlanetScale does not provide assistance on the
    general use of the Licensed Software or problem diagnosis if
    Customer is not current in its payment obligations. CUSTOMER
    ACKNOWLEDGES THAT, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 9.1,
    PLANETSCALE MAKES NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATIONS OR
    WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND WITH RESPECT TO THE LICENSED SOFTWARE OR
    SERVICES, OR THEIR CONDITION. PLANETSCALE IS FURNISHING THE
    WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN SECTION 9.1 IN LIEU OF, AND PLANETSCALE
    HEREBY EXPRESSLY EXCLUDES, ANY AND ALL OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
    REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, WHETHER UNDER COMMON LAW, STATUTE OR
    OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES AS TO
    MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SATISFACTORY
    QUALITY OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD-PARTY RIGHTS.

    LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

    **Exclusion of Consequential Damages**. EXCEPT FOR LIABILITY ARISING
    FROM A PARTY’S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT,
    [[]{#OLE_LINK2 .anchor}]{#OLE_LINK1 .anchor}A BREACH OF SECTION 11
    BY EITHER PARTY, PLANETSCALE’S INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS UNDER
    SECTION 12, OR CUSTOMER’S BREACH OF SECTION 2, IN NO EVENT SHALL
    PLANETSCALE OR CUSTOMER BE LIABLE IN AN ACTION UNDER TORT, CONTRACT,
    WARRANTY OR OTHERWISE FOR ANY: (a) SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
    INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE/EXEMPLARY DAMAGES OR LOSSES ARISING FROM OR
    RELATED TO A BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE OPERATION OR USE OF THE
    LICENSED SOFTWARE, OR THE SERVICES PERFORMED HEREUNDER, INCLUDING,
    WITHOUT LIMITATION, SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES ARISING FROM (i) LOSS OF
    BUSINESS, PROFIT OR REVENUES, (ii) LOSS OF DATA, PROGRAMMING OR
    CONTENT, (iii) FAILURE TO REALIZE SAVINGS OR OTHER BENEFITS, (iv)
    SUBSTITUTE PROCUREMENT, OR (v) DAMAGE TO EQUIPMENT, INCURRED BY
    EITHER PARTY OR ANY THIRD PARTY, EVEN IF THE OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN
    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES OR IF SUCH
    DAMAGES OR LOSSES ARE FORESEEABLE; OR (b) DAMAGES OR LOSSES
    (REGARDLESS OF THEIR NATURE) FOR ANY DELAY OR FAILURE BY A PARTY TO
    PERFORM ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT DUE TO ANY CAUSE BEYOND
    SUCH PARTY’S REASONABLE CONTROL.

    **Maximum Liability**. NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY IN
    THIS AGREEMENT AND EXCEPT FOR A PARTY’S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL
    MISCONDUCT, A BREACH OF SECTION 11 BY EITHER PARTY, PLANETSCALE’S
    INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS UNDER SECTION 12, OR CUSTOMER’S BREACH
    OF SECTION 2, IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY’S TOTAL LIABILITY TO
    CUSTOMER FOR DAMAGES, LOSSES OR LIABILITY OF ANY KIND EXCEED, EITHER
    CUMULATIVELY OR IN THE AGGREGATE, THE FEES PAID OR PAYABLE BY
    CUSTOMER TO PLANETSCALE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IN THE TWELVE (12)
    MONTHS PRIOR TO THE DATE THE CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION AROSE. THE
    FOREGOING LIMITATION APPLIES EVEN IF A PARTY’S REMEDIES UNDER THIS
    AGREEMENT FAIL OF THEIR ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.

    CONFIDENTIALITY. Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
    Disclosing Party, each Receiving Party agrees (a) to keep all
    Confidential Information in strict confidence and not to disclose or
    reveal any Confidential Information to any person (other than to
    Receiving Party’s Representatives who (i) are actively and directly
    involved in providing or receiving products or services under this
    Agreement, and (ii) have a need to know the Confidential
    Information), and (b) not to use Confidential Information for any
    purpose other than in connection with fulfilling obligations or
    exercising rights under this Agreement. The Receiving Party shall
    treat all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party by using
    the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable degree of
    care, as it accords its own Confidential Information. The parties
    agree to cause their Representatives who receive Confidential
    Information to adhere to confidentiality obligations substantially
    similar to those set forth herein. Notwithstanding the above, the
    obligations of the parties set forth herein shall not apply to any
    information that: (i) was in the public domain at the time it was
    disclosed or has entered the public domain through no fault of the
    Receiving Party or any of its Representatives; (ii) was known to the
    Receiving Party free of any obligation of confidentiality before or
    after the time it was communicated to the Receiving Party by the
    Disclosing Party; (iii) is independently developed by the Receiving
    Party without use of or reference to the Disclosing Party’s
    Confidential Information; (iv) is disclosed with the prior written
    approval of the Disclosing Party; (v) is or becomes available to the
    Receiving Party on a non-confidential basis from a person other than
    the Disclosing Party or any of its Representatives. If any
    Confidential Information is required to be disclosed pursuant to an
    order or requirement of a court, administrative agency or other
    governmental body, the Receiving Party shall provide prompt written
    notice of such court order or requirement to the Disclosing Party to
    enable the Disclosing Party to seek a protective order or otherwise
    prevent or restrict such disclosure, and shall use reasonable
    efforts to cooperate with the Disclosing Party (at the Disclosing
    Party’s expense) to obtain such protective order or other
    appropriate remedy. In the event that such protective order or other
    remedy is not obtained, the Receiving Party and its Representatives
    shall use reasonable efforts to disclose only that portion of the
    Confidential Information that is legally required to be disclosed.
    Any materials or documents which have been furnished to the
    Receiving Party from the Disclosing Party shall be promptly returned
    or destroyed, at the option of the Disclosing Party, by the
    Receiving Party, within ten (10) days after a written notice is made
    by the Disclosing Party requesting such return or destruction.
    Receiving Party’s confidentiality obligations shall survive and
    remain in full force and effect for a period of five (5) years from
    the termination or expiration of this Agreement; provided, however,
    Customer’s confidentiality obligations with respect to any software
    code (in source code and object code forms) shall survive
    indefinitely.

    INDEMNIFICATION.

    **By PlanetScale**: PlanetScale will indemnify, defend and hold
    harmless Customer and its employees (collectively, the
    “**Indemnified Parties**”) from and against any and all losses
    arising from claims by a third party that the Licensed Software when
    used by Customer as authorized in this Agreement (i) directly
    infringes a third party copyright or patent; or (ii)
    misappropriates, or unlawfully uses a third-party’s trade secrets
    (collectively, “**Infringement Claims**”). Should any Licensed
    Software become, or in PlanetScale’s opinion be likely to become,
    the subject of any Infringement Claim, then Customer will permit
    PlanetScale, at PlanetScale’s option and expense: to procure for
    Customer the right to continue using the Licensed Software; to
    replace or modify the Licensed Software or portion thereof to be
    non-infringing; or to take any other action reasonably deemed
    advisable by PlanetScale related to such alleged infringement. In
    the event none of these remedies is commercially reasonable,
    PlanetScale may, in its sole discretion, terminate this Agreement
    and refund to Customer prepaid Fees for the terminated portion of
    the Authorized Period. The provisions of this Section 12 constitute
    the entire understanding of the parties regarding PlanetScale’s
    liability for Infringement Claims (including related claims for
    breach of warranty if any) and sole obligation to indemnify and
    reimburse any Indemnified Party.

    **Notice** **of Claim and Indemnity Procedure**. In the event of a
    claim for which an Indemnified Party will seek indemnity or
    reimbursement under this Section 12, and as a condition of the
    indemnity benefits in Section 12, such party shall notify
    PlanetScale in writing as soon as practicable, but in no event later
    than thirty (30) days after receipt of such claim, together with
    such further information as is necessary for PlanetScale to evaluate
    such claim to the extent that the Indemnified Party is in possession
    or has knowledge of such information. As a condition of the
    indemnity benefits in Section 12, PlanetScale shall have the right
    to assume full control of the defense of the claim, including
    retaining counsel of its own choosing. Upon the assumption by
    PlanetScale of the defense of a claim with counsel of its choosing,
    PlanetScale will not be liable for the fees and expenses of
    additional counsel retained by any Indemnified Party or any
    settlement entered into by the Indemnified Parties without
    PlanetScale's express written consent. The Indemnified Party(is)
    shall cooperate with PlanetScale in the defense of any such claim.

    **Exclusions.** Notwithstanding any other provision in this
    Agreement, PlanetScale shall have no obligation to indemnify or
    reimburse any Indemnified Party with respect to any Infringement
    Claim to the extent arising from (i) use of any Licensed Software in
    combination with any products or services other than those provided
    or approved by PlanetScale to Customer under this Agreement; (ii)
    modification of the Licensed Software after delivery by PlanetScale
    to Customer, except for such modifications performed by or expressly
    approved in writing by PlanetScale; (iii) use of any version of the
    Licensed Software other than the most current version made available
    by PlanetScale to Customer hereunder; (iv) the failure of any
    Indemnified Party to use any Updates, corrections or enhancements to
    the Licensed Software that are made available by PlanetScale to
    Customer hereunder; or (v) detailed, non-discretionary designs or
    specifications provided to PlanetScale by any Indemnified Party that
    necessarily caused such Infringement Claim. Customer agrees to
    reimburse PlanetScale for any and all damages, losses, costs and
    expenses incurred as a result of any of the foregoing actions.

    MISCELLANEOUS.

    **Notices**. All notices, summons and communications related to this
    Agreement and sent by either party hereto to the other shall be
    written in English and given by registered mail, internationally
    recognized overnight courier or by facsimile also confirmed by
    registered or certified mail, postage prepaid. Notices to
    PlanetScale shall be addressed to the person accepting this
    Agreement and the applicable Order Form, with a copy to
    legal@planetscale.com. Notices to Customer are to be addressed to
    the person accepting this Agreement and the applicable Order Form.
    Either Party may change its address for notice by giving notice of
    such address change in the manner provided herein.

    **Logo Use Rights**. PlanetScale may identify Customer as a user of
    the Licensed Software and/or Services by referencing Customer’s name
    and logo, provided that such reference is consistent with Customer’s
    generally applicable branding guidelines and that PlanetScale will
    cease making such references after receiving written notice from
    Customer to do so.

    **Assignment**. Neither Party may assign any of its rights or
    obligations hereunder, whether by operation of law or otherwise,
    without the prior express written consent of the other Party;
    provided, however, a Party may assign this Agreement in its
    entirety, together with all rights and obligations hereunder,
    without consent of the other Party, in connection with a merger,
    acquisition, corporate reorganization, or sale of all or
    substantially all of its assets related to this Agreement. Any
    attempt by a Party to assign its rights or obligations under this
    Agreement in breach of this section shall be void and of no effect.
    Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement shall bind and inure to the
    benefit of the Parties, their respective successors and permitted
    assigns.

    **Survival**. Sections 1, 2.2, 3.4, 4, 6, 8.2, 9.4, 10, 11, 13 shall
    survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement, or any
    default under or rejection in bankruptcy of this Agreement by
    Customer.

    **Governing Law; Jurisdiction**. This Agreement and all matters
    relating to this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and
    controlled by the laws of the State of California, without reference
    to its conflict of law principles. The parties agree to submit to
    the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the courts located in San
    Francisco, California and hereby waive any objections to the
    jurisdiction and venue of such courts.

    **No Agency; Independent Contractors**. In connection with this
    Agreement each party is an independent contractor and as such will
    not have any authority to bind or commit the other. Furthermore,
    neither this Agreement, nor any terms and conditions contained
    herein, shall be construed as creating a partnership, joint venture
    or agency relationship or as granting a franchise.

    **Export Control.** The Licensed Software, the Documentation and all
    other technical information delivered hereunder (collectively,
    “**Technical Data**”) include technology and software and are
    subject to the export control laws and regulations of the United
    States (“**U.S.**”). Customer agrees not to export, re-export or
    otherwise release any Licensed Software outside of the U.S. and to
    abide by such laws and regulations as to which PlanetScale may
    notify Customer from time to time. Customer further acknowledges and
    agrees that the Technical Data may also be subject to the export
    laws and regulations of the country in which the products are
    received, and that Customer will abide by such laws and regulations.

    **Compliance with Laws**. Customer shall comply with all applicable
    laws and regulations in its use of any Licensed Software and
    Documentation, including without limitation the unlawful gathering
    or collecting, or assisting in the gathering or collecting of
    information in violation of any privacy laws or regulations.
    Customer shall, at its own expense, defend, indemnify and hold
    harmless PlanetScale from and against any and all claims, losses,
    liabilities, damages, judgments, government or federal sanctions,
    costs and expenses (including attorneys’ fees) incurred by
    PlanetScale arising from any claim or assertion by any third party
    of violation of privacy laws or regulations by Customer or any of
    its agents, officers, directors or employees.

    **Force Majeure**. Neither party shall be liable for failure to
    perform any of its obligations under this Agreement (except payment
    obligations) during any period in which such party cannot perform
    due to fire, earthquake, flood, any other natural disaster,
    epidemic, accident, explosion, casualty, strike, lockout, labor
    controversy, war, embargo, riot, civil disturbance, act of public
    enemy, act of nature, the intervention of any government authority,
    any failure or delay of any transportation, power, or for any other
    similar cause beyond either party’s control. In the case of failure
    to perform, the failing party shall promptly notify the other party
    in writing of the reason for and the likely duration of the failure.
    The performance of the failing party's obligations shall be
    suspended during the period that the cause persists, and each party
    shall use commercially reasonable efforts to avoid the effect of
    that cause.

    **Severability and Waiver**. If any provision of this Agreement is
    held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, the
    provision shall be modified by the court and interpreted so as best
    to accomplish the objectives of the original provision to the
    fullest extent permitted by law, and the remaining provisions of
    this Agreement shall remain in effect.

    **Entire Agreement; Amendment**. This Agreement and all Exhibits
    referred to herein embody the entire understanding of the parties
    with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all
    previous communications, representations or understandings, either
    oral or written, between the parties relating to the subject matter
    hereof. It shall not be modified except by a written agreement
    signed on behalf of Customer and PlanetScale by their respective
    duly authorized representatives. Customer acknowledges that it is
    entering into this Agreement solely on the basis of the agreements
    and representations contained herein, and for its own purposes and
    not for the benefit of any third party. In the event of any
    inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of
    the Exhibit, the terms of the Exhibit shall govern. In the event of
    any inconsistency between this Agreement (including the Exhibits)
    and any Order Form, the terms of such Order Form shall prevail.
    Notwithstanding any language to the contrary therein, all terms and
    conditions stated in any Customer purchase order or in any other
    ordering documentation (excluding Order Forms) are hereby rejected.
    Such terms will not form any part of this Agreement, and all such
    terms or conditions are null and void

    **Headings**. Captions and headings contained in this Agreement have
    been included for ease of reference and convenience and shall not be
    considered in interpreting or construing this Agreement.

**_Exhibit A_**

**MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT FOR THE LICENSED SOFTWARE**

1.  ACCESS TO PLANETSCALE. PlanetScale will provide Customer with
    telephone and email support, Monday through Friday, from 8:00 a.m.
    to 6:00 p.m. Pacific Time (excluding designated PlanetScale company
    holidays).

    UPDATES. For so long as Customer is timely in the performance of its
    obligations under this Agreement and these M&S terms, and has paid
    to PlanetScale the corresponding Software License and M&S Fees,
    PlanetScale shall provide Customer with access to Updates of the
    Licensed Software during the Authorized Term.

    REQUEST FOR PROBLEM RESOLUTION. All requests by Customer for Error
    resolution will be logged after which PlanetScale will perform an
    initial diagnosis and determine as far as reasonably practical the
    source of any problem which may have led to the support request. All
    response and resolution times shall commence at the beginning of the
    next business day for requests for problem resolution that are
    logged during non-business hours.

    BUG FIXING. PlanetScale will investigate incident reports concerning
    suspected problems with Licensed Software provided that (a) Customer
    sends PlanetScale a written report, which includes evidence of the
    suspected Error, and (b) the incident can be reproduced or
    reasonably confirmed by PlanetScale. PlanetScale will use
    commercially reasonable efforts to promptly correct the Error or
    provide a workaround to permit Customer to use the Licensed Software
    substantially in conformance with the applicable Documentation.
    Should an Error not be resolved quickly or for bugs that require
    further investigation, the procedures set forth in Section 5 of this
    Exhibit A shall be invoked to engage the appropriate resources.

    ESCALATION PROCEDURES. With regard to Errors submitted to Escalation
    Procedures, an action plan will be developed by the PlanetScale
    support team and communicated to Customer. When an escalated Error
    has been resolved, the request for assistance will be considered
    closed upon the mutual agreement of the parties, such agreement not
    to be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. An Error will
    not be considered resolved until one of the following activities has
    been completed:

    a. a resolution to the problem is obtained to Customer’s reasonable
    satisfaction;

    b. a computer software code change in the form of a patch or a new
    revision that corrects the problem without causing additional
    problems has been delivered to Customer, successfully installed
    and is working;

    c. a short term workaround is delivered and accepted by Customer,
    though such acceptance shall not absolve PlanetScale from any
    obligation to provide a long term solution if required; or

    d. an engineering commitment is made, upon Customer’s agreement, to
    correct the problem in a future release of the Licensed
    Software.

        EXCLUDED SERVICES. PlanetScale shall not be obligated to fix any
        Error or problem:

    <!-- -->

    a. where the Licensed Software is not used for its intended
    purpose; or

    <!-- -->

    a. where the Licensed Software has been altered, damaged, modified
    or incorporated into other software in a manner not approved by
    PlanetScale; or

    b. where the Licensed Software is a release that is no longer
    supported by PlanetScale; or

    c. which is caused by Customer’s or a third party’s software or
    equipment or by Customer’s negligence, abuse, misapplication, or
    use of the Licensed Software other than as specified in the
    Documentation; or

    d. where fixing the problem would require changes to Customer’s
    hardware or an Upgrade.

If PlanetScale determines that it has no obligation to fix the reported
incident for one of the reasons stated above, the parties may enter into
a separate Order Form and/or Statement of Work authorizing PlanetScale
to provide additional support services at PlanetScale’s then-current
professional services rates plus expenses.

DEFINITIONS.

a. “**Error**” means an incident that investigation reveals is caused
by the Licensed Software’s failure to perform materially in
accordance with the specifications set forth in the Documentation
for such Licensed Software. An incident will not be classified as an
Error if (a) the relevant Licensed Software is not used for its
intended purpose; (b) the incident is caused by Customer’s or a
third party’s software or equipment (except to the extent
PlanetScale has incorporated or packaged such third party’s software
or equipment in or with the Licensed Software); or (c) the version
of the Licensed Software on which the Error has purportedly occurred
is not the most current version of such Licensed Software made
available to Customer under this Agreement.

<!-- -->

a. “**New Version**” means a release of a Licensed Software product or
component thereof that implements a fundamental change in the
software system philosophy and/or the software architecture, as
determined by PlanetScale in its sole discretion, typically
identified by a change in the digit to the left of the decimal point
of the product numbering convention (x.x) (e.g., Product 3.0 to
Product 4.0).

b. “**Update**” means a change to the current version of a Licensed
Software product or a component thereof that does not constitute a
New Version, as determined by PlanetScale in its sole discretion. An
Update may include, without limitation, bug fixes, enhancements to
the capability of an already partially supported feature or changes
in the number, type, and/or specification of the supported
platform(s), and is typically identified by a change in the digit to
the right of the decimal point of the product numbering convention
(x.x) (e.g., Product 3.1 to Product 3.2).

c. “**Upgrade**” means a migration by an existing Customer to a New
Version.
